feat: Introduce Waitlist component docs (#1696)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/components/waitlist/overview.mdx

---
title: '`<Waitlist />` component'
description: The <Waitlist /> component renders a waitlist form that allows users to join for early access to your application.
---

> ![The \<Waitlist /> component renders a waitlist form that allows users to join for early access to your app.](/docs/images/ui-components/waitlist.svg)
> 
> The `<Waitlist />` component renders a waitlist form that allows users to join for early access to your app.

Reviewer: ❓ Do we need to repeat the waitlist term here?

```suggestion
![The \<Waitlist /> component renders a form that allows users to join for early access to your app.](/docs/images/ui-components/waitlist.svg)

The `<Waitlist />` component renders a form that allows users to join for early access to your app.
```

Author: @kostaspt the first is the image alt text 🙃

---
title: '`<Waitlist />` component'
description: The <Waitlist /> component renders a waitlist form that allows users to join for early access to your application.
---

![The \<Waitlist /> component renders a waitlist form that allows users to join for early access to your application.](/docs/images/ui-components/waitlist.svg)

The `<Waitlist />` component renders a waitlist form that allows users to join for early access to your application.

> [!NOTE]

> > If you are using Next.js the`<Waitlist />` component is available in `@clerk/nextjs\@6.2.0`  and above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> If you are using Next.js, the`<Waitlist />` component is available in `@clerk/nextjs@6.2.0` and above.
```

> > [!NOTE]
> > If you are using Next.js the`<Waitlist />` component is available from <code>@clerk/nextjs\@6.2.0</code>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> If you are using Next.js, the`<Waitlist />` component is available in `@clerk/nextjs@6.2.0` and above.
```

Author: Done

## Properties

All props are optional.

<Properties>
  - `appearance`
  - <code>[Appearance](/docs/customization/overview) | undefined</code>

  Optional object to style your components. Will only affect [Clerk components](/docs/components/overview) and not [Account Portal](/docs/customization/account-portal/overview) pages.

  ---

  - `afterJoinWaitlistUrl`
  - `string`

  Full URL or path to navigate to after joining the waitlist.

  ---

  - `signInUrl`
  - `string`

>   Full URL or path to the sign in page. Use this property to provide the target of the 'Sign In' link that's rendered. It's recommended to use [NEXT\_PUBLIC\_CLERK\_SIGN\_IN\_URL](/docs/deployments/clerk-environment-variables#sign-in-and-sign-up-redirects) instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Full URL or path to the sign in page. Use this property to provide the target of the 'Sign In' link that's rendered. It's recommended to use [the environment variable](/docs/deployments/clerk-environment-variables#sign-in-and-sign-up-redirects) instead.
```

---
title: '`<Waitlist />` component'

> description: Clerk's <Waitlist /> component is used to render a waitlist form that allows users to join for early access to your application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Clerk's <Waitlist /> component renders a waitlist form that allows users to join for early access to your application.
```

---

> ![Clerk's \<Waitlist /> component is used to render a waitlist form that allows users to join for early access to your application.](/docs/images/ui-components/waitlist.svg)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![The \<Waitlist /> component renders a waitlist form that allows users to join for early access to your application.](/docs/images/ui-components/waitlist.svg)
```

> Clerk's `<Waitlist />` component is used to render a waitlist form that allows users to join for early access to your application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `<Waitlist />` component renders a waitlist form that allows users to join for early access to your application.
```

> [!NOTE]
> The `<Waitlist />` component is only available in Core 2. If you are using Next.js is available after <code>@clerk/nextjs\@6.2.0</code>

## Properties

All props are optional.

<Properties>
  - `appearance`
  - <code>[Appearance](/docs/customization/overview) | undefined</code>

  Optional object to style your components. Will only affect [Clerk components](/docs/components/overview) and not [Account Portal](/docs/customization/account-portal/overview) pages.

  ---

  - `afterJoinWaitlistUrl`
  - `string`

>   Full URL or path to navigate after join waitlist.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Full URL or path to navigate to after joining the waitlist.
```

  ---

  - `signInUrl`
  - `string`

>   Full URL or path where the SignIn component is mounted.

Reviewer 2: This is the description we use on the other component pages. Is it still accurate for the Waitlist component?

```suggestion
  Full URL or path to the sign in page. Use this property to provide the target of the 'Sign In' link that's rendered. It's recommended to use [the environment variable](/docs/deployments/clerk-environment-variables#sign-in-and-sign-up-redirects) instead.
```

</Properties>

## Usage with frameworks

The following example includes a basic implementation of the `<Waitlist />` component. You can use this as a starting point for your own implementation.

> <Tabs type="framework" items={["Next.js", "React"]}>
>   <Tab>
>     <CodeBlockTabs type="router" options={["App Router", "Pages Router"]}>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Tabs items={["Next.js", "React"]}>
  <Tab>
    <CodeBlockTabs options={["App Router", "Pages Router"]}>
```

      export default function WaitlistPage() {
        return <Waitlist />
      }
      ```
    </CodeBlockTabs>
  </Tab>

  <Tab>
    ```jsx {{ filename: '/waitlist.tsx' }}
    import { Waitlist } from '@clerk/clerk-react'

    export default function WaitlistPage() {
      return <Waitlist />
    }
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Usage with JavaScript

The following methods available on an instance of the [`Clerk`](/docs/references/javascript/clerk/clerk) class are used to render and control the `<Waitlist />` component:

- [`mountWaitlist`](#mount-waitlist)
- [`unmountWaitlist`](#unmount-waitlist)
- [`openWaitlist`](#open-waitlist)
- [`closeWaitlist`](#close-waitlist)

The following examples assume that you have followed the [quickstart](/docs/quickstarts/javascript) in order to add Clerk to your JavaScript application.

### <code>mount<wbr />Waitlist()</code>

Render the `<Waitlist />` component to an HTML `<div>` element.

```typescript
function mountWaitlist(node: HTMLDivElement, props?: WaitlistProps): void
```

### <code>mount<wbr />Waitlist()</code> params

<Properties>
  - `node`
  - [`HTMLDivElement`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLDivElement)

>   The `<div>` element used to render in the `<Watilist />` component

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The `<div>` element used to render in the `<Waitlist />` component
```
